Now we've talked a lot about some of the fundamental rules of user interface design and things that
you should keep in mind when you're creating a UI designs.
But where exactly do you stop when you know nothing about design?
How do you create these beautiful designs?
Well we actually have a whole module dedicated to taking you through from use a floor mapping to wire
framing to mockups to prototyping and that will take you through the journey of a digital designer.
But one of the most important things to keep in mind not just when you're approaching design but also
when you're approaching development or coding or starting a business or anything is to keep it as simple
as you can to start with.
So when you're creating your website or your app, start with the design that is completely monochrome
just black and white or hints of gray.
That way you can focus on the layout,
you can focus on the alignment, you can focus on making things look good where they are without being
distracted by colors or images or any of the fancy stuff.
So start in monochrome and give it a single shot of color like UBER does to highlight the key things
that you want to
draw people's attention to.
Now remember if everything is black and white even a hint of color will stand out in a big way. And then
maybe add two colors or three and go up from there.
Don't start with complexity and tone it down.
Always start with the simplest thing possible and then go upwards.
There's a really great website called Dribbble which is where digital designers showcase some of their
best work in their portfolios and is also a great place where you can find design talent for your next
project or get inspiration about how you can approach your next design project. And it has one really
well hidden search capability and that's the ability to search by color.
So the link to the search functionality is in the text below this video.
And what you can do here is you can enter a particular hex code of a color and look at how professional
designers are using that color or combining it with other colors to make their designs come to life.
So the idea is that once you've designed your app in monochrome then you're thinking about coloring
it up
so have a look over there and see if you can be inspired.